# p-star model
In this project we analyse an exponential random graph model (ERGM) in which the sufficient statistics are the total numbers of p-stars in the network. (Note that the term p-star should not be confused with p*, which sometimes stands for ERGMs in general.) We also introduce its mean field analogue ("MF model") defined by the Hamiltonian which depends solely on the powers of connectance. It turns out that MF model can be solved using the PDE-based techniques (apart from more conventional methods) and these analytical results are in excellent agreement with Monte Carlo simulations implemented in this repo.

[comment]: <> (For better understanding see my PhD thesis available at ..., and https://github.com/OlegRS/ERGMs.)

## Code
Images from the paper stored in ./figures directory were produced using the Python scripts which can be found in ./scripts directory with the same names. Most of these scripts rely on the data stored in ./data directory in the form of .csv files with descriptive names. The data needed for all the scripts apart from low_temp_LCC_and_degree_distr.py (for which the files were too large for github) are already in the right location within ./data directory, so running the scripts with Python 3 should reproduce images from the paper apart from ./figures/low_temp_LCC_and_degree_distr.png (for which the data is missing). 

C++ implementations of Monte Carlo simulations that produced all the data can be found in ./models/main_sim directory. To compile them simply uncomment the line with desired program in ./models/main_sim/compile.sh (g++ can be replaced with clang++), cd to ./main_sim directory, and run "./compile.sh". After compilation cd to ./models/bin (which will be created by the compile.sh), and execute the binary form there. The data in the form of .csv files with descriptive names will be saved somewhere in ./data directory (see the code to find out where exactly).
